+++
title = "Short Sequence Classification Through Discriminable Linear Dynamical System"
date = 2019-02-05T11:50:05-05:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Yang Li", "**Junyuan Hong**", "Huanhuan Chen"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems"
publication_short = "TNNLS"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Linear dynamical system (LDS) offers a convenient way to reveal the unobservable structure behind the data. This makes it useful for data representation and explanatory analysis. An immediate limitation with this model is that most training algorithms train a model to best approximate a sequential instance. They do not consider its class or label which indicates the dissimilarity/similarity to other instances. As a result, LDS's trained in this way are inclined to be indistinguishable over classes, resulting in a poor performance in the model-based classification. In this paper, after revisiting this limitation, we propose to promote the diversity between the two models of different classes. The diversity, measured by determinantal point process (DPP) on LDS's, is utilized to remedy the greedy behavior of the electromagnetic algorithm. The training goal is a model that balances the goodness of fit and being distinguishable over classes. Experiments on synthetic data confirm its effectiveness in generating discriminative systems under supervisory information. The classification on short time-span data sets confirms that the models generated by our approach could generalize well to unseen data."
abstract_short = "In this paper, we propose to promote the diversity between the two models of different classes. The diversity, measured by determinantal point process (DPP) on LDS's, is utilized to remedy the greedy behavior of the electromagnetic algorithm."

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this page with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references 
#   `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides = ""

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Classification", "Supervised learning", "Linear dynamic systems"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Digital Object Identifier (DOI)
doi = "10.1109/TNNLS.2019.2891743"

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = ""

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = ""
+++
